



Through analysis of patients' dreams and using as a basis the clear representation of the the dreams of children as
wish fufillments as a basis, freud develops a theory that dreams are at bottom wish fufillments.

The purpose of satisfying a desire is clear, as desires for things such as food, excitement, or sexual gratification 
are surely hinderences to rest and sleep.

It is clear that there is a relationship between desires evoked and experiences from the previous day in dreams.

In freuds analysis, he find a clear relationship between rather strange dreams which are on the suface abstract and his daily experiences.

Freud relies heavily on the psychoanalytic method of association when analyzing dreams in the attempt to find 
the latent thoughts and desires which serve as a basis for dream formation, that is the latent thoughts
from which the manifest dream is created.

Freud attempts to chart out the psychical processs by which latent content is transformed into manfest content
and detials the precise mechanisms.

Two of the most significant processes are condensation and displacement.

Condensation is the process by which the sum total of underlying thoughts over determine the dream scene.

That is the dream is itself sort of symbolic expression or representation of the underlying thoughts.

The uncoscious as freud notes througout his work very artistic its manner of reprsenting and combining elements of logical
 reasoning and particular trains of thought into sybolic representation into the scenes and images of a dream.

 In freud's own dream, freud found through analysis that his own dream in a disgused way was a symbolic fufilments of a wish 
 and represented though its contents many concerns and memories related to his recent experieces in waking life
, all relating to the core theme of love that costs nothing.

Freud notes the mechanism of displacemnet. WWhich can take place to varying degrees. Displacement refers to the 
relationship between latent thoughts and how those thoughts are expressed in the scene of a dream.

Further analysis indicates to freud that many times upon refelctiona dn analysis of dreams, much of the
the thoughts indicated by the dream seem to be unrealized from waking life, that is,
thoughts that the dreamer can recognize as true and found to be represented in the dream.

Freud claims these thoughts that are unaccessible to consciousness,
 but that are evidently represented in dreams are repressed.

It is common for this class of thoughts and feelings to be both unpleasant and at conflict with one's conscious
belief and/or societal standards.

Freud provides categores of dreams based on whether they obviously represent a desire and if the desire's fufuillment is
clear or hidden through a symbolic means.

Freud elaborates on mechanisims like the censor which serve as a bridge between the conscious mind and the 
unconscious desires which seek epxression.



---------- Book club notes 1/5/25






























